And this lesson, I'm going to cover how you can monitor your of instances, as well as find out the
status of the underlying hardware or which your instances of running.
So it will be a hands on.
I'm going to head over to the console in the AC to management console.
I've already launched an easy instance if you want to follow along.
You can launch your own instance.
You know how to do that.
Any instance Typekit do.
But I recommend sticking within the free tier.
So using a T2 micro instance will be fine and default settings are OK.
Or we're going to do is look at these status checks and the monitoring information.
So with my instance highlighted, I've selected the checkbox on the left there.
If I go across to status checks, you'll see there's two different types of status check here.
On the left hand side, we have the system status check now.
The System Status Check is checking that the underlying hardware, which you'll see two instances running,
is working operationally.
If there's a problem with a system status check, it means that eight of us are going to need to be
involved to actually fix that problem.
In this case, we can see a green tick mark, and it says the system reachability check has passed on
the right hand side.
We then have the instant status checks.
Now here IWC is checking the software networking configuration of your ISA to instance itself.
So making sure that your operating system is configured correctly so that your instance is operational
and it's communicating on the network.
If there's a problem here, it would need your involvement as an IWC customer to fix the issue.
And again, here we have a green checkmark, so everything's good.
Now, if I then head over to monitoring once the pages refreshed, you should see some information here
about the performance of your easy to instance.
Now, if you've just launched your instance, they may not be any data here as yet, but it will come
after a few minutes.
So as you can see, we've got information on the CPU utilization, the status checks.
We've also got networking performance information and we've got disk performance information.
Now this information is data that's getting sent to the Cloud Watch monitoring service.
We saw Cloud Watch earlier in the course when we actually went and created a billing alarm cloud, which
is a performance monitoring tool.
The services within IWC send metrics to Cloud Watch Cloud Watch will collect this metric data from your
EC2 instances, and then you can then go and look at that performance information.
And as you can see, it is presented here in the IWC management console.
Another place you can go is the cloud watch itself.
So this is the cloud watch console.
You can find it under services management and governance and cloud watch within cloud watch.
What we'll do is go down to all metrics and you can see we have some metrics here now.
The metrics that you see here correspond to whichever services you've been running and that are actually
sending data to Cloud Watch.
So you won't see all services here because we haven't used that many services yet, but we can see easy
actually.
And also EBS, the Elastic Block Store, which are the volumes which are attached to your instance.
So let's go into EC2 per instance metrics and you can see here we have an instance right now that should
correspond to the instance IP of our instance.
And as you can see, it does this one finishes in eighty five.
Now, once you have many instances running, you'll then have all of that information populates it here
and you can search by instance like.
These are the same metrics that we saw over in the easy to management console.
Now, if we come back up again to the top accounts EBS and per volumetrics, we can then see the metrics
corresponding to the volume that's attached to our easy to instance.
So now we're looking at performance data related to our EBS volume, and if we come back over to EC2,
got a storage and you'll see that volume here, my volume, my D finishes in D7 and that corresponds
to the metrics that I'm seeing in the console here.
So again, if you want to find something in the console, let's say you want to search for the metrics
for this particular volume IDE.
And maybe you have lots of EBS volumes running, then you would just go and filter and you would see
only the metrics associated with that particular volume.
So I'm going to clear my filter that come back over to E2.
I want to go back to the monitoring tab and you see you have this option here to manage detailed monitoring
now with monitoring your AC, to instance, will send metric data to Cloud Watch every five minutes.
And you don't pay for that.
If you want to enable detailed monitoring, you're going to need to pay, but then your instance will
send data every one minute.
So if you need that extra granularity, you can enable detailed monitoring.
I'm just going to cancel out of there.
And that's really all I wanted to show you in this lesson.
So I'm simply going to terminate my instance.